#summary HIRO workshop with tecnallia, corporation in Spain
= Introduction =

* Date: 2012/01/26(Tue),27(Fri)

* Participants:

- Dr. Urko Esnaola, Dr. Damien Salle (tecnallia),

- Mr. Saito, Mr. Kawasumi (GRX), 

- Dr. Okada, Dr. Diankov, Mr. Tsuda, Mr. Nozawa, Mr. Chen, Mr. Saito (JSK, Univ. of Tokyo)



*[hiro_startup_tutorial HIRO AND ROS STARTUP TUTORIAL]*



* Jan 26, Morning (RTM-ROS setup)


http://code.google.com/p/rtm-ros-robotics/wiki/ROS_English#Setup_Eclipse

- rosrun openhrp3 rtsysedit.sh

-- press right button, and select "Add Name Server"

-- enter RTM name server (192.168.128.14, for example)

-- press ON button upper the eclipse

- start gui.sh

- rosmake hrpsys_ros_bridge --rosdep-install --rosdep-yes


* Jan 26, Afternoon (move real robot)

$ roslaunch hironx_ros_bridge hironx.launch

You can view the robot state in rviz.

In another terminal,

$ roscd hrpsys_ros_bridge/scripts

$ rosrun roseus roseus kawada-hironx-sample.l

* Jan 27, Morning

OpenRAVE introduction

- http://openrave.programmingvision.com/en/main/plugin_interfaces.html
- http://openrave.programmingvision.com/en/main/examples.html

JSK HIRO robot software was updated.


* Jan 27, Afternoon 1

* Jan 27, Afternoon 2

= Details =

Best order to install would be,

-- $ rosmake hrpsys_ros_bridge --rosdep-install --rosdep-yes

-- $ roslaunch hrpsys_ros_bridge hironx.launch (for simulation)
-- $ roslaunch hironx_ros_bridge hironx.launch (for real robot)

~~-- you need custom(?) version of seq for ROS, and need to update /opt/grx/HIRONX/script/bodyinfo.py by http://code.google.com/p/rtm-ros-robotics/source/browse/trunk/rtmros_common/hironx_ros_bridge/scripts/bodyinfo.py~~

-- The newest version of the HIRO software allows you to switch the Sequence Player RTC. The steps to use this are as follows.
 # On the Robot do, 
   $ touch /opt/grx/HIRONX/bin/use_ros<br>
   $ cd /opt/grx/HIRONX/bin; ./setupRos.sh on<br>
 # On the vision PC do, 
   $ touch /opt/grx/HIRONX/bin/use_ros<br>
   $ cd /opt/grx/HIRONX/bin; ./setupRos.sh on<br>
   $ cd /opt/grx/HIRONX/script; rm {{{*}}}.class<br>
 # start gui.py and press "restart rtcd"
 sample.py has a wrapper class for the SequencePlayer used for the ROS connection, so you do not have to change bodyinfo.py. This is a preliminary release before switching to the open version.

-- python example code http://code.google.com/p/rtm-ros-robotics/source/browse/trunk/rtmros_common/hironx_ros_bridge/scripts/sample.py

--- roscd hironx_ros_bridge/scripts; `rosrun hrpsys hrpsyspy sample.py`